Learn how to generate embeddings with Azure OpenAI
Article
11/11/2024
14 contributors
In this article
How to get embeddings
Best practices
Limitations & risks
Next steps
An embedding is a special format of data representation that can be easily utilized by machine learning models and algorithms. The embedding is an information dense representation of the semantic meaning of a piece of text. Each embedding is a vector of floating point numbers, such that the distance between two embeddings in the vector space is correlated with semantic similarity between two inputs in the original format. For example, if two texts are similar, then their vector representations should also be similar. Embeddings power vector similarity search in Azure Databases such as Azure Cosmos DB for MongoDB vCore , Azure SQL Database or Azure Database for PostgreSQL - Flexible Server.

How to get embeddings
To obtain an embedding vector for a piece of text, we make a request to the embeddings endpoint as shown in the following code snippets:

console
OpenAI Python 1.x
OpenAI Python 0.28.1
C#
PowerShell
Python

Copy
import os
from openai import AzureOpenAI

client = AzureOpenAI(
  api_key = os.getenv("AZURE_OPENAI_API_KEY"),  
  api_version = "2024-06-01",
  azure_endpoint =os.getenv("AZURE_OPENAI_ENDPOINT") 
)

response = client.embeddings.create(
    input = "Your text string goes here",
    model= "text-embedding-3-large"
)

print(response.model_dump_json(indent=2))
Best practices
Verify inputs don't exceed the maximum length
The maximum length of input text for our latest embedding models is 8,192 tokens. You should verify that your inputs don't exceed this limit before making a request.
If sending an array of inputs in a single embedding request the max array size is 2048.
When sending an array of inputs in a single request, remember that the number of tokens per minute in your requests must remain below the quota limit that was assigned at model deployment. By default, the latest generation 3 embeddings models are subject to a 350 K TPM per region limit.
Limitations & risks
Our embedding models may be unreliable or pose social risks in certain cases, and may cause harm in the absence of mitigations. Review our Responsible AI content for more information on how to approach their use responsibly.